---
layout: default
title: 3D Modeling
date: 2024-09-19T13:38:30.130Z
imagegallery:
  showgallery: true
  carouselgrid: grid
  galleryImages:
    - /img/Ex1.jpg
    - /img/Ex8.jpg
    - /img/Ex4.jpg
    - /img/Ex5.jpg
thumbnail: /img/Ex7.jpg
description: And what is it about?.
included: true
numbernavigation: 100
promoted: "0"
---
<br>

---

## What is 3D Modeling?

3D modeling is the art and science of creating three-dimensional representations of objects using specialized software. These models can be used in various fields, such as video games, films, architecture, and product design. The process involves constructing a digital object by manipulating vertices, edges, and faces to create a detailed and accurate representation of a real-world item or an imaginative concept.

---

<div class="modeling-process">

## My Modeling Process

### 1. Conceptualization: 
The first step involves brainstorming and sketching ideas. I consider the purpose of the model, its context, and how it will be used.

### 2. Reference Gathering: 
I collect reference images and data to understand the object's details better. This stage helps me ensure accuracy in proportions, textures, and materials.

### 3. Modeling: 
Using Visual Studio and my preferred 3D modeling software, I begin constructing the model. This phase includes creating the basic shapes and gradually adding detail. I often utilize techniques like polygon modeling or sculpting, depending on the complexity of the object.

### 4. Texturing and Shading: 
Once the model is complete, I apply textures and materials to give it a realistic appearance. This involves UV mapping and choosing the right colors, patterns, and finishes.

### 5. Lighting and Rendering: 
To present the model effectively, I set up lighting and render the scene. This step is crucial for showcasing the model in its intended environment.

### 5. Feedback and Revisions: 
I often seek feedback from peers or mentors, allowing me to refine the model and make necessary adjustments.

<br>

</div>


---

## Time Commitment

The time it takes to complete a 3D model varies significantly based on its complexity. Simple models may take a few hours, while intricate designs can span several days or even weeks. On average, I dedicate approximately 20 to 30 hours to a project, ensuring that every detail aligns with my vision.

<br>

## Inspiration from Artists

Throughout my journey in 3D modeling, I've come across many talented artists whose work inspires me. Under this post, I'll share examples of some of these artists, highlighting their unique styles and contributions to the world of 3D art. Stay tuned for a deeper dive into their amazing creations!

<br>

### Creators: 

_Konstantin Gerhald_ - <br>

<span style="color: #155e75;">https://www.artstation.com/artwork/03r5LY
<br>

_Lukas Walzer_ -<br>

<span style="color: #155e75;">https://www.artstation.com/artwork/Gamr5W
<br>

_Zachary L_ -<br>

<span style="color: #155e75;">https://www.artstation.com/zachary_l
<br>


<br>

---
